WIM: Hi.
In this tutorial, I want
to explain the relationship
between maps and folds
in Haskell and loops
in an imperative language.
For the imperative language, I
will use the scripting language
Ruby, but you can do this really
in any imperative language.
So suppose we want to perform a
map on a list using function f.
And suppose the
function f is simply
something like x times x plus 1.
Suppose lst is just
a list of numbers.
Then we can print
this computation.
So, now, if you want to
do the same thing in Ruby,
then we first need to
create the function f.
And then we create the
lists, lst is an empty list.
And then we populate
it with the range.
Now, we create the result list.
And we apply the map.
And then we simply print this.
Let's try this.
So to get a bit similar result
in Ruby, we can move this.
And now it looks a bit
more like the Haskell we saw.
Clearly, the for loop is a very
straightforward implementation
of the map.
So, for every
element in the list,
we push a new element
on to the new list lst_.
So what about folds.
Now, suppose we have
operation g is (/).
And then we can fold the
division and using the left
fold,
foldl g and then
an accumulator, which we can
set to 1, and on our list.
So we can print this
now and see what we get.
So, now, let's do the
same thing in Ruby.
We have to create
the function g.
And we can't do this neat
thing like we do in Haskell,
so we have to actually
say def g(accumulator and element).
And we have acc/elt.
And then we have a loop.
And we start with qcc = 1.0.
And we apply the function
to the accumulator
And we can try it out.
Indeed, we get the same thing.
Now, if we do the same
but with a right fold,
so, obviously, the Haskell
example is fairly simple.
And g prime is
just the same as g.
And so we can simply print
with the new accumulator.
And try that.
And in Ruby, we need to
define a new function g.
And I can't use a prime,
so I'll use an underscore.
But note that we have
to define it like this.
And we have our for loop.
Where we reverse the list, so
that we can start at the end.
We can inspect this.
And indeed, we do
get the same result.
So, essentially, what we see
is that the fold operations are
actually loops that change
updatable variable using
a function that uses
the same variable.
So g uses acc and returns and
a new value-based on acc and elt,
and it sends this to acc.
And g_ does the same thing.
And you have to
explicitly specify
the order of the
arguments, so that when
you traverse the
list from the right,
you get the same
result as in Haskell.
For the map, it's much simpler.
So you take a list,
you apply the function
on each element of the
list, and this result
is pushed onto the new list.
Note, again, how much neater
all this is in Haskell,
so each of these folds and
maps are just single lines.
In Ruby, we have to
write explicit functions
for each of them.
But the main message
is that if you
are in some doubt of how
a fold, left or a right
fold, or a map works in Haskell,
you can always try and think
of this alternative-- how it
works in an imperative language
with for loops.
And from there, you can easily
reason about what your maps
or folds should look like.